[Music]
when paramount's television division
decided they needed an action hero that
was both family and
advertiser friendly writer lee david
zlotov had the answer
macgyver an adventure series about a
freelance samaritan
who uses unlikely tools paper clips
gum chocolate to get out of everywhere
from a locked room to the middle east
the series
which ran for seven seasons turned
richard dean
anderson into america's favorite science
gig
as always you are watching how they
changed
and let's have a look back at the show
its production and why macgyver
wasn't allowed to have a girlfriend
there's a real macgyver well kind of
after lee david's lot of decided his
protagonist would be armed with little
more than a swiss army knife
and a formidable intellect he stumbled
upon a gemologist at caltech
named john coeville who seemed to have
experience
in everything from physics to chemistry
when macgyver was ordered by abc koivula
became the show's scientific consultant
writers would think of a logical problem
then called
coivula who would come up with a
macgyverism or solution
anything deemed harmful usually omitted
a step or two
so that people who attempted to recreate
the experiments at home
wouldn't blow themselves up
his first name was originally stacey
the 7th and final season of macgyver
satisfied thank curiosity by revealing
the character's first name
angus in a not fairy dickens move
richard dean anderson suggested it
because he saw it on a banner in
vancouver
but prior to the show's premiere
paramount publicity circulated a flyer
that credited anderson as plain stacy
macgyver
the name was thought to be taken from an
early version of the pilot's crypt
his last name was inspired by mcdonald's
zlatan wanted a masculine sounding name
for the character
and had intended to simply call him guy
but france convinced him that it didn't
sound too compelling
instead zlata picked up on the fact that
the popularity of mcdonald's was
prompting people to
facetiously add an mc or mac in front of
words
so i suggested we call our hero maggai
zloth if we called but everyone thought
it really needed to have three syllables
and we finally got macgyver and agreed
that was the one
the pilot was so bad the director had
his name removed
executive producer john rich told the
archive of american television that the
pilot for macgyver came in at running
time of 90 minutes
and it was awful it was dreary rich sad
it was no good it was an hour and a half
of dreadful
over an easter holiday rich recut the
episode removing 30 minutes
as a result of the perceived meddling
director gerald friedman wanted his name
taken off
the generic pseudonym alan smithey
appears in the credits
[Music]
viewers thought the show killed a rhino
for an episode in which macgyver
confronts poachers
the show's effects team spent forty
thousand dollars
crafting a fake rhinoceros for a key
scene
in which the animal is destroyed the
money made for an effective moment
but it also prompted viewers to call in
condemning the producers for victimizing
a helpless creature
in fact only richard dean anderson was
harmed during filming
he accidentally stepped into a ditch and
injured his back in the first season
causing a nagging injury that needed
surgery two years later
poor mac couldn't have a girlfriend
while the show was popular for its
clever approach to science
it didn't hurt that anderson was a
former soap opera star
and a frequent target of affection for
swooning viewers
as a consequence macgyver getting
romantically involved with a woman in
this series
was usually met with indignation when a
love interest was introduced for several
episodes
in the third season this show's fans
voiced their displeasure
over the potential of the show turning
into moonlighting
the show paid fans to come up with
macgyverisms
getting macgyver out of hairy situations
using a variety of items within
arm's reach was a clever conceit and one
that got increasingly difficult to
orchestrate as this series continued
at one point john reach offered viewers
a cash reward
if they could submit a scenario of using
the show while
all incoming letters were read very few
had plausible ideas
one successful entry described a way in
which macgyver could fix a leaking
cooling system on a vehicle
by cracking an egg into the radiator
as it heated and hardened it would seal
the hole
[Music]
henry winkler was an executive producer
the former fans produced the series with
his partner john rich
he also made a cameo appearance in
season six
opposite henry's will he played a lawyer
which
actually foreshadowed his role on
arrested development
richard dean anderson is exactly one
year older than macgyver
while there has been some debate around
when the character's birthday actually
is
confirmation that his birthday was on
the 23rd of january 1951
was given when they showed his passport
in the episode
every time she smiles richard dean
anderson was born on the 23rd january
crazy coincidence
[Music]
mack did use a gun twice among the
characters many distinctive traits
his disdainful firearms was possibly the
most defining
because macgyver couldn't rely on
weapons he was forced to improvise
alternative solutions but in the pilot
episode
anderson who didn't like guns either
is seen shooting an automatic weapon
in a later season macgyver used a gun
smashed out the barrel
and used the remaining piece as a
makeshift hand range
not everyone was a fan of his no bazooka
policy
when an episode aired in 1988 that
depicted the origins of macgyver's
aversion to guns
it turns out that a boyhood friend was
killed by one accidentally
the national rifle association went
nuclear
since that time we have been on their
hit list co-executive producer steve
downing told the los angeles times
they have been encouraging people not to
watch us and boycott our sponsors
we try to do a decent job of really
saying why a gun is dangerous
and they choose to boycott us and put us
on their hit list
richard dean anderson was cast because
he put on his classes during the
audition
when reading for the role in additions
the minnesota-born actor reached to grab
his reading glasses
winkler found that humble gesture to be
humanizing
this wasn't just some tough guy myopia
helped anderson land macgyver
his floating home ended up on craigslist
but most of the shows run macgyver lived
in a pretty cool floating home that was
docked
in a vancouver boat yard when paramount
was done using it it was sold off
remodeled and resold in 2012.
since then it has apparently suffered
damage
due to the whole foundation water thing
in late 2014
it was sold for under forty thousand
dollars on craigslist
far below the original two hundred
thousand dollar valuation
young macgyver never made it to air cool
and hip are not exactly trademarks of
the macgyver franchise
but the wb still gave it a swing in 2003
they commissioned a pilot
that starred jared padillacy
supernatural
as macgyver's equally resourceful nephew
clay
a tipit network reception resulted in
this series never getting a full order
now cbs is trying again with its own
macgyver reboot
he used low-fat milk oven cleaner a
hockey ticket
a feather quill and a walkie-talkie to
diffuse bombs
everyone loves the clever macgyverisms
that mack used to get himself out of
sticky situations
he was particularly skilled at defusing
bombs under pressure
the hockey ticket which mac needs to
slide into an aries slot
is used in phoenix under siege
richard dean anderson watched his own
macgyver moment
when anderson was once locked out of his
house he found a way inside
the actor had gone to a custom crew
holiday party during the first season
but wasn't having much fun so he and a
friend
moved over to a gathering for cheers
instead
when anderson made it home he couldn't
get in
relating this story to a tv guide
reporter anderson thought
the most efficient solution was to pick
up a nearby bench
and threw it through the front window a
friend
later sent him a new bench it had the
swiss army symbol on it
and that was all for today don't forget
to smash that like button
subscribe and ring the bell share this
video with friends who also like
macgyver and other classic tv shows
take care friends